Welcome back.
And in this lesson we're going to build out an image carousel using javascript.
So what we need in our web page is we need to basically create our image.
So I'm just going to set up an image and give it an idea so that we can grab it.
And this is going to be just my image
and the source right now we don't actually need to have a source because we're going to add the source
and dynamically with Javascript.
So this is actually all we need in order to initiate our project.
And all we need is a function in order to start our image Carrousel.
So let's set up some basic parameters for images.
So I want to generate some dynamic images here.
I'm going to use placeholder as well that we used last time.
And we also need a holder.
So this one will just be my I am image place.
So we're going to start that at zero so we can start out with the first image in that array.
Next let's set up an array.
What that's going to actually contain all of our images and what I'm going to do is I'm simply cannot
just output numbers here.
So you could also do this as well and I actually have real images.
So I just want to save some time here and I'm going to use the place sold it anyway so that will give
me a variety of images and I'm going to set different values on those images.
And also I want to also have another array where I have colors.
So Image image is c..
So this will be my array which corresponds to that and saves me the trouble of building out images where
I can simply output them the colors here.
So let's create some colors.
So do some different shades.
And actually it doesn't matter which colors I'm using.
And what's so we have a wide variety.
I just want to have the same amount of colors as there are items in the array above.
And let's add one more color and
so there.
So we've got a variety of colors.
We've got our images.
So everything is all ready to go.
And now all we need to do is set up and change our image picture so we need a couple of functions for
that.
So let's set up a function to switch image.
So this function is solely going to swap our images and we're going to increment the value of image
so any incremental value of image place by one.
So basically this will change the image once we go over to the s w image so this should be for a switch
or swap let's call it swap image.
So this will actually swap the image to the next one within the array.
So now we just need to update and build out our image.
So let's set a variable and create a holder for that image that we've got within our h tim L so that
we can grab that particular image.
And here we're going to do.
So do my image and this is Document get element by ID and it was my image the idea was my image.
So grab that value and the next line we can set our source.
So that's my image and source.
And then we need to specify the source for the images.
So we're going to use the placeholder dot com as well.
It's the same thing that we did last time and then we'll just adjust some of the parameters so we know
that we've got a parameter here for collar's so we can take the array this array
and we'll use whatever value is in Image place.
And this is turning up fairly long.
But next we need to do a slash so do a slash for the caller.
And then lastly let's update that text on the image.
So we'll have it equal to image and then I'll make the last value dynamic as well.
So this is going to be whatever the value of image is image.
Place index's.
So let's refresh the page and we'll try it out.
So notice that we don't have an image set yet so we can open up our console and that that function was
swapped image.
So when we do that we see that we can create our image.
And again if we do it again we change to the next image and next image and next image.
So we know that the next step is to fire off that particular function.
So what we need is another function that can continuously loop and fire that off.
So we saw earlier where we had a timeout interval.
But this time let's have another interval that we're going to use and this one is going to set a constant
interval so this interval will constantly keep firing off.
And this is exactly what we need for images.
So we don't want it just to fire off one time and stop we want it to fire off over and over again.
So I'm just wrapping it in a function to start image and then within here we're using the built in method.
So this is set interval and basically it calls a function or executes a code snippet repeatedly with
a fixed time delay between each call.
So it works very similar to the other interval that we saw earlier where all we need to do is specify
a function that we want to fire off.
And then how often we want to fire it off.
And again in milliseconds.
So every two thousand milliseconds will be every two seconds.
So let's try this out.
And we're still going to be missing.
One other thing.
So let's let's fire off star image and now that we fire this off we see that now we're getting images
and it's firing off it's alternating every two seconds.
So the last thing that we need is we need a way whenever the page loads that we fire off start image
to get this image carousel started.
So what I want you to do now pause the video and write that into the script and we have looked at this
before that there's a number of ways that whenever the page whenever the body loads or the window loads
that we can fire off a function so show you the solution coming up.
So you get an opportunity to review what we looked at before and there was a number of ways so we could
do the window on load or we could do the onload attribute.
So I was going to do the onload attribute within here and it's simply as simply just grabbing this function
so that whenever the page loads that we just fire off the start image and we saw how that was working
earlier.
And there's actually one thing here that I've noticed that is still going wrong is that we've got Image
undefined because what's happened is our image place has run out of images.
So that's why that is happening.
So I want you to do now is pause the video and come up with a solution for that.
So we know that we've run the course we've run through all these images and we know that arrays have
a length.
So we can grab that length and if our images have passed the length that we've got to reset this back
to zero.
So try that out and I'll show you the solution for that.
So the solution for that is a conditional statement.
So whenever we need any piece of logic applied we always turn to conditional statements and this is
where we can ask that question.
If this value has actually exceeded the length of our images array then we know that we've got to stop
this and we've got to reset it.
So if that has happened then all we have to do is reset it back to zero.
And I to swap this out to be one second go back refreshed the page.
So now we see we've got it triggered.
We started it.
We've gone through and we're hitting 7 and we're going to undefined and 1.
So we're still running into a problem here that this is still running too long so we need to update
it with the equal sign.
And that way we know we're only going to run till 7.
So there's one other thing that also we should update and take care of.
So do you know what that is going to be.
I notice that whenever we trigger and we start the image we don't have a default image loaded in there.
So there's a number of options that can take care of that.
So what I want you to do again is pause the video and come up with a solution how we can have a default
image on the start.
So notice that it's completely blank and then it goes to three four.
So wait stop one second before it actually loads the image.
So go ahead and try it out.
And I'm going to show you the solution coming up as well.
So the solution to this is a number of ways to go about it.
We could trigger this function right away.
So without having to wait the Millis the 100 milliseconds we could trigger it.
So we could do something like this and go out and refresh the page.
So what happens when we refresh the page.
I know it's going pretty quickly.
So we're actually starting at image too.
So that is a solution but it's not ideal because we're incrementing the value so we could also start
with the default value of place image to negative 1 if we wanted.
So that would take care of this as well.
There's a number of ways to do this to get it to start but in each one or if we wanted to we could just
simply update the value here with some of the default values that we have.
So that is another option that we could do that we could simply do this and just make it clean it up
a little bit and we could refresh it and then get rid of the swap image there because that's adding
one to that image.
So the ideal way is probably just to set that value here and that way we're starting at Image number
one.
So there's a number of solutions to that one and we can see that now it's starting at number one.
So what I want you to do now is to try this out for yourself build out some images.
You can get rid of the placeholder dot com and out and some real images and make that update to the
source code with actual real images not using placeholders.
Con.